[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Hopefully some of those
ideas of functional programing light,
functional light programming have
been stirring around in your head.
Closures and recursions and immutable
value usage and things like that.
We're gonna finish up our
workshop with an exercise,
Exercise 4, it's basically the last
thing we'll do with this workshop.
And the goal here is to sort of
walk through some steps that make
you practice that, and to borrow the term,
to compose those ideas together a bit.
It's still silly problem solving, we would
be here all day if I tried to give you
a real program and
tried to in context do that.
So they're still silly,
simple academic like examples, but
hopefully they're a little more concrete,
and we can start to figure out
how these things fit together.
So, [COUGH] we're gonna start with this
empty EX4.js, and rather than this be
an exercise that I just turn you
loose on for the next 30 minutes, and
have you do yourself, we're gonna kinda
make this a little bit interactive.
I'm gonna say some stuff, and I'll stop
for a minute and let you type, and
then I'll say some more stuff,
that kinda thing.
So this'll be an interactive thing,
roughly,
probably 30 to 40 minutes-ish of us
discussing, and we'll figure out when
we've gotten all of the usefulness out
of the exercise and then we'll wrap up.
So, the first thing that
we're gonna start with, and
if you follow along with the readme,
that's fine.
If you want to jump ahead, you may miss
a few of the points that we're making, so
I would encourage you maybe not to do too
much of the jumping ahead in the readme,
even if you feel like you're
ready to go onto the next step.
But you can follow along with the readme
cuz that's basically what I'm gonna do.
So, what we're gonna start out with, and
one other thing, to kinda give you a heads
up on, this is another one of those
things that in functional programming,
I've observed from the outside.
I'm coming at this all
from the reverse angle.
I didn't start out learning
functional programming.
Douglas Crockford has
a great quote on this topic.
I don't know if it's original him,
but he has a great quote on the topic.
That the problem with functional
programming is as soon as you understand
it, you stop being able to teach it.
And there's humor there, but there's also
some truth there because as soon as you
really understand and you get steeped
in all the academic tradition and
the terminology,
it's really hard to switch back.
So rather than go that direction and
be ineffective at teaching,
my goal is to come at it from the backend,
from the reverse.
So I don't know whether, I'm not gonna
get certified as a functional programmer
anytime soon, but hopefully some
of these things are starting to
fit in a little more concretely for you.
But one of the things that I have
observed from that backend perspective,
coming at it from the reverse,
is that there are some times
when an abstraction gets created, and
you look at the abstraction and you think,
what even remotely prompted
somebody to come up with that?
And the best metaphor I can give you for
it is, if you remember back,
maybe in high school or whatever when
you took an algebra class and, or
maybe it was a calculus class or
something like that.
But you've been working along with some
problem and you're trying to solve for
x in one side of the thing, and it's not
clear how you're gonna, you get to some
point and the teacher's working through
the problem with you, and it's not clear
looking at it, that there's an easy way to
isolate the x, to solve for x or whatever.
And then all of a sudden, she's like,
well, if we multiply by y cubed on
both sides, and you're like, what?
But she does it, and all of a sudden,
it just magically makes everything,
it unsticks the logjam and then you can
move on, and that used to drive me insane.
How did you just pull this rabbit out
of thin air that just magically worked?
What was it that did that?
And I don't have a terribly great
answer for it, but it is to say this.
I think functional programming,
my perspective, one of the most important
techniques that you can get or one of the
most important skills that you can get at
functional programming,
is developing instincts for things.
And that's basically what my
algebra teacher said was,
I've done it enough that when I see a
problem that kinda looks like this, I just
remember that I can invoke this pattern
and it helps to unstick the solution.
So really,
functional programming is kinda like that,
sometimes you invoke things out of
thin air that don't logically flow
directly from what you just did,
but they unstick you.
They create an abstraction
that unsticks you and
makes a solution to a problem work.
So there are gonna be a couple of these
things where I'm gonna pull something out
of thin air and you're gonna be like, why
are you passing that function in that way?
It's really more based
upon those instincts.
That's really what I'm trying to get
across with this whole workshop is to help
you understand what those basic principles
are in functional programming, and
let you try to weave those
together into instincts.
When you look at a problem,
I want you to have the instinct to say,
I've seen that before, that's a transform.
I know how to do that, I can pull out map.
Or even if it doesn't look yet
like a transform, but
you're trying to figure out the cleanest
and most straightforward way of expressing
a solution to the problem, maybe
something will go off in your head and
you'll say, I have an instinct that this
is probably something I could do with map.
I can wrap this value in an array and
do it with a map and
that will make more sense.
So it's those instincts.
It's those pulling solutions
out of thin air thing
that seems to be how functional
programmers are so good at what they do.
That's just an observation that I'll make,
and we will see a little bit
of that as we go through.